- Stay comfortable, Colonel.
- Thank you.
I don't hide from you that I'm
very happy to have you by my side.
This company perhaps
it is the most risky of my life
And I just want people
trusted with me.
They are aware of all slander
that they say on your account.
It is said that in Türkiye
You have become of Muslim faith
And that you fought under false name.
It only happened once, in truth.
My battle name was Osman Bey.
My officers think that from that country
have taken customs, habits, thoughts.
They consider you ...
... like an extravagant.
Why do they have a lot with you?
- Because they are not like them.
- that is, how are you?
A free man in the service of freedom
wherever it is necessary to defend it.
I'm here, because I believe as you too,
that the time has come...
to hunt those who hold hostage
South and Italy.
Yes, but the mail
is played in Sicily...
and the voices that come from there
they are conflicting. What do you know?
I believe in the Sicilians
who speak little,
In those who run inside,
they suffer.
It is a people which is revealed
above all in the silences,
...in the words he does not say.
Good morning.
- Tricò Domenico?
- Sissignor.
- It was Antonino Pio.
- Tell us about your insulting leg.
I was a child
And I was working in a mill.
I turned the mill
to pull the water from the well.
One day I stopped that I was tired
And the master gave me a blow
with an iron that launched me forever.
But if there is to run I run.
How did you get on?
I was making my mind. A thousand crafts.
I also did the artificant.
They called me for fire games
in patronal feasts,
Then one day everything went on fire
And they blamed me,
But what did I have to do with it?
And I ran away on the continent.
And I made other jobs
always in patronal feasts.
- Why do you want to return to Sicily?
- Colonel, do you ask me too?
To free it from these cuckolds.
Enlisted.
Thank you.
It is well.
Excuse me, it came from the heart.
Ragusìn,
Do you know how they say in my part?
"The best word is that
that is not said. "
- Ah, yes?
- Yes.
The opposite is true for me.
The word must be clear, like oil
Otherwise you don't understand
anything anymore.
Don't fear, from now on I will
keep the tongue in brake.
Indeed, forgive me.
All right.
Let's go on.
Come on, young man.
You are Marchetti
Bepin aged eleven
- And you would like to enlist with us.
- Yes, Colonel.
But you realize that you are alone
A child. Do you know what awaits you?
- I'm ready for everything for Garibaldi.
- Are you alone?
No, there is also my father.
Marchetti Luigi.
Doctor and patriot.
You have already enrolled it.
Well.
Now you are angreen too.
Thank you.
- Are you the last one?
- it seems to me yes.
- Come on, then, what are you
waiting for? Hurry up. Here I am.
- You are a rosary.
- to serve it.
Here it is written that you were born in Palermo.
Why do you speak in this way?
Colonel, I have gone away for years
from that city and I live here to the north.
but I was Palermo.
If you were Palermo,
You are still and you will always be.
On the other hand, declared here
you have attended
- The Nunziatella military school.
- Yes, of course.
It is necessary that I know well
that school.
I entered it at nine
And I went out to 19.
I also entered as a child, but I was
Forced to go away before time
- Due to a family mourning.
- Your father?
An uncle of mine, Baron.
The only one who could pay the straight line.
Who were your instructors?
Crisanti was still there?
- and how, chrysants. A good person.
- Yes?
- What about Major Salerno?
- He too, an exquisite person.
No, you chrys and Salerno
You can't have known them,
both went away
long before I came.
- Maybe I have been wrong.
- You are certainly wrong.
And tell me, of the discipline of weapons
And there is some notion of shooting?
- A little something.
- Enroll.
- Enrolled?
Thank you.
Don't do that face, Ragusìn.
With what awaits us,
Even the impostors can be useful.
To read I brought myself
Victor Hugo's poems
for the Palermo nights,
If we ever get there.
We will get there.
Garibaldi has never lost a battle.
But are you not afraid?
Fear? I don't know what it is.
And then, to die to free Sicily
From the Bourbons, huh? And unite Italy ...
That's what we want,
isn't it?
And what do you laugh?
Last night
I arrived that it was already late,
and when I entered
I found an old man
who prayed to his
hands on and cursed ...
Where you go, what he did to you bad
The king of Naples?
What did the Bourbons do you wrong?
Back home, Briganti!
And I, I immediately took the hat
And I made it disappear ...
As.
There he is.
Stupid!
Long live Italy! Long live the king!
Long live Garibaldi! Long live Garibaldi!
Where is the general?
To look for ships
who have to take us to Sicily.
They had to be already here and they
are not there. Let's start well.
♪ Go, thought, ♪
♪ On the golden in ♪ ♪
♪ Go, you put you ♪ ♪
♪ On the clivi and on the hills ♪
♪ where olezzano ♪
♪ Tepide and soft ♪
♪ The sweet aure ♪ ♪
♪ of the Natal soil ♪
- Viva Verdi!
- Bravo!
Viva Verdi!
But you are really good.
It's luck.
Hey Scemo,
Are you not a magician?
- What do you say?
- Of course yes.
Here they are! Here they are!
Are we all there?
Courage, it passes soon.
"Saveria of my heart,
If God wants, I'm in a ship
that will take me to you.
There is a very ugly time
And the boys are all throwing up.
I only think about you
And I can't wait to hug you again.
The thought of seeing you again
He gives me strength and courage. "
Your…
Do-me ...
ni-co.
To bed and always be stretched out.
I recommend,
you drink little.
My name is Rosa, I'm a fighter
Me too. I come from Savoy
And I'm here because I want too,
Like you, united and free Italy.
Belly up.
- What does a female make us on a ship?
- Pirla,
She is the bride of Crispi.
then, we have
the ball and the cartridge case.
We insert and roll up.
- Eh?
- Let's roll up.
Let's make you taught it the same.
When you hear the ball, close.
- Eh?
Guys, when one closes, closes.
The word itself says it.
Pack ...
We remove this and fill.
Sorry.
I was looking for Domenico Tricò.
He sends me the Lieutenant Ragusìn.
Come on.
Please?
Look, I realized that
you are Sicilian.
Take those bags and
take them here.
- Do I only have
to take them? Yes, just you!
After the dust we close above.
We close tight ...
Kiss to the Bourbons.
Barcino, look that you have to
load them on the shoulders.
And take them here. Do soon.
Here.
With this we do instead
cannon balls for the Bourbons.
Pam!
What are you afraid?
Are you Bourbone?
Colonel, we got skilled.
We arrived! We arrived!
Let's go.
Here it is!
Marsala!
- Is it Marsala?
- Yes, it's Marsala.
- here they are!
- Viva Garibaldi!
Come on! Come on!
On the ground!
Why do you stop? We have to bring
The sheltering cannons to the walls!
On your feet, strength!
Standing, let's go!
But what the fuck ...
Gather to the Navy!
Mind, with me they have it.
- go!
- Ahia!
- Who is? It's me,
what do you do here? Go away.
What you are doing,
I'm running away from this hell.
You are also a deserter, go.
I? Why are you what are you?
Come on, let me enter.
No, this is my hiding place.
Look for another. Horned.
- If they take me, they shoot me.
- And what do I care?
But I swear I first denounce you.
You are a cuckold,
infamous and traitor!
We just miss that they kill me.
Next, enter.
Deserter I?
I who did all the ammunition
For Garibaldi on the steamer.
If it was not for me like
Did he make the war?
Who pulled him, the stones?
Look that I also threw the blood
on that steamer.
With all the bags you made me
Bringing the hernia came to me.
They should give
me the hero medal.
Hero with this face?
You can do the fuck.
Then it means that the Padreno
He put together for this,
Because we look like it.
"Marsala, 11 May.
Landing and despite
the cannonate, no dead. "
No, indeed ...
There is a victim and...
and he is a dog.
There are also two deserters.
However, luck assists us.
Luck counts nothing
For a military.
Luck helps fools.
- "Fortuna Favet Fatuis?"
- Everyone helped us in Marsala.
Men, boys, children.
Even the friars, set aside
The sacraments ran to help us.
All generous!
Veneti, Lombardi, Toscani,
Piedmontese, Emiliani, Ligurian.
All ready to sacrifice yourself!
The only exception, the only shame,
Two Sicilians.
Two miserable beggars!
Two cacasotto deserters
they flee
to the first battle signs
than instead of the blood
they have a spiered shit!
Ragusìn.
- Soon, the name register.
- Yes.
Please God
that you don't make me meet again!
Nobody should know
that those two miserable took part
to our glorious expedition.
- I'm finally free.
- To do that?
I know. I greet you.
But what are you following me?
But when ever.
I'm doing my way.
To go where?
- In Catania.
- In Catania?
Sissignor.
And this, in your opinion,
Is it the road to Catania?
Yes.
But let me be the pleasure.
People of Salemi, citizens,
We landed here
To free the beautiful land of Sicily
by the Borbone oppressor ...
In the name of Vittorio Emanuele,
Constitutional re of Italy.
- Long live the king!
- Viva Garibaldi!
My men will take covered,
Food, cash in the municipal coffers.
My first act of government
it will be abolishing taxes
on salt and bread and ...
divide the landlords
And distribute the earth!
Viva Garibaldi!
From you I expect loyalty and courage.
Account on your help
and on your commitment of patriots.
My lieutenant, Nino Bixio,
It will give you other important communications.
Viva Garibaldi!
I will be short and very clear.
I warn you.
Anyone will not fight
on our side
will be considered a traitor
and will undergo the consequences
of his cowardly gesture.
- Are you still here?
- Do you think you're only hungry?
Floor.
- It is tender.
- Yes.
Three quarters is mine, a quarter is yours.
I saw it before.
Come here.
Floor.
Let's go.
What is it?
What happens? Oh!
Cuckold!
Cornuto and thief, lay the sheep!
- The rifle!
- Escape!
Ouch ...
Let's run away before you recharge!
Children of whore!
There was little to do
that the idioticated one whimped me.
He would have done well.
Anyway, the two of us must
get to agree.
The step I say.
Come behind me.
How beautiful this. I am walking forward
And suddenly I have to come behind you.
Because who said it
What do you have to go on?
- What if I didn't agree?
- You go alone.
Oh well, I come behind you,
But stop now.
I am tired and it lasts my ass.
Can you know where we are going?
I to my country
to marry my girlfriend.
You, I don't know.
For this you were united
at the expense of the thousand.
To take a ride.
And instead you to make Italy united.
It is true?
Italy? But that I care.
Tell me the truth,
Why did you embark on the ship?
To escape from Venice.
Mind, even run away.
And who followed you, thoughts?
An infamous and false accusation.
You kissed with the cards, is it true?
See you sleep.
- Who is?
- Shut up!
Do slowly.
Peace and good, sister.
Can you open me for pleasure?
We are hungry.
What are you doing? They are women.
You have to go there with feeling.
And what should I do,
Do I have to start crying?
Don't worry, there is always a trick.
Now I do something that works safe.
- Meaning what?
- The deaf -mute.
- Do you know how to do the deaf -mute?
- Certain.
We see.
What happens?
Nothing, the poor man was injured.
He cannot speak because he is deaf -mute,
from birth.
Poor.
You see that it worked.
Good morning, Mother Badesssa.
Unfortunately, a fatality was injured.
Where?
Show the mother Badessa
Where did you hurt yourself.
- Now?
- Safe.
Fuck. It is a paradise.
SSH… Remember that you are silent.
At what point are we?
So much is so missing?
It still takes a little patience.
Luckily it was pepper.
♪ The spring has arrived ♪
♪ The almonds are in bloom ♪
♪ To me a fire of love ♪
♪ I turned my heart ♪
♪ Birds chase each other ♪
♪ they chirp together ♪ ♪
♪ of many beautiful things ♪
♪ that make me dream ♪
Assuntine,
Why do you sing this scurrile song?
Is it scurrile?
It seemed so innocent to me. Excuse me.
Ave, Maria, full of grace,
The Lord is with you.
You are blessed among women and Benedetto
It is the fruit of your breast, Jesus.
Santa Maria, Mother of God,
Pray for us sinners ...
Here it is, our deserter.
of the talk,
Lieutenant Colonel?
Of Orsini.
An old acquaintance.
has played
in our Bourbon army
with the degrees of major.
and here it is,
With Garibaldi.
All this to satisfy
its sinister revolutionary ambitions.
It is a vain of the worst species.
Colonel?
- What are we waiting for?
- The general order.
Give the order to the first battalion
to advance.
Play the attack.
Compagnia, Presentatorm!
Down Bagionett '.
Next, Marc '!
Fire!
Artillery, fire!
♪ Italy has aroused ♪ ♪
♪ of the helmet ... ♪
Baratieri.
Canezza.
Canezza?
- Culiazzi.
- I am here.
Gramaccini?
We gave him a nice wood, though.
Is it true, Colonel?
We won,
But there is nothing to celebrate, lieutenant.
Look around.
Agazzi.
Agazzi?
bums.
Buns?
Comfortable, friends.
I understand
that I can try every challenge with you.
I had counted on your bayonets
And I didn't deceive myself.
This tells us how much we can do
When the entire Italian family
It will be brought together under one flag.
Friends that generously
they offer us refuge tonight
they give us their sincere wine
and I take this opportunity to make a toast
and tell you thanks.
Prosit.
I feel you.
I know you are there.
Sister Anna, I recognized you.
Here you are. Come here I take you.
Where do you go?
Come here.
I saw you, stop.
Stop, Monella.
I take you to Morsi, where are you?
Stop, I told you stopped!
Come here.
Come here!
Where? I saw you, come here.
Why
Did you throw this card?
Let me do my game,
Sister Agostina.
As you want, Assuntina.
Sister Vittoria has prepared
The usual soup?
- Tennerumi.
- What a hassle.
- She only knows how to do that.
- I know.
What do you want?
He is thirsty this poor man.
Water and mint.
Assuntina ...
Mhm.
- Mhm?
- Mhm.
He wants to play with money.
Mhm.
Mind, this is a cuckold!
Don't be frightened, sister,
So much can hear anything.
I told you that it is deaf, as well as silent.
But you made a double sin
with that word.
For you he sang the rooster of San Pietro.
Chicchirichì.
What do you want to do it?
I took the vice in the family.
My grandfather, good soul.
My father, good soul.
My brothers, good soul.
- The loved cousins ​​...
- Good soul.
They always stayed with cards in hand.
My father with these
He made us live in thirteen.
Then, always for these cursed cards
He died killed.
But you can't hear anything.
Me and Sister Agostina
We are talking to the wall.
Cricco, Crocco and Fiasco's handle.
Tricò, this is paradise.
Shadow, fresh ...
Top quality food.
Morning and evening.
And also some games.
Look here.
Today I collected the begging of the sisters.
Money earned honestly.
Without cheating.
And then there are the eyes of Assuntina
that make you dissolve.
- But why don't we stay here?
- What are you saying?
But when ever? No.
I have to go to the country, I have to get married.
I'm not here
to be enchanted by the fairies.
But that I care about me.
Indeed, I will tell you more.
Tomorrow I greet everyone ...
And I'm leaving.
What is there, Baronetto?
You dumbfounded yourself, huh?
Don't you say anything?
And that I tell you, tricò.
At least you have the hope of a wife,
of a family.
I have nobody.
My family is this.
Goodnight, tricò.
Goodnight, Spita '.
Colonel, it was enough to ask.
I would have done myself immediately.
This is a Turkish coffee, lieutenant.
His preparation is a divinatory art.
Do you want to?
Yes please.
A little clutch, just to like.
Yes, it's true.
The first few times sucks a little.
You have to get used to it.
In Constantinople I learned to read
in coffee funds.
What do you see, Colonel?
I see that the Sicilians will welcome us
as liberators.
Well.
But this is only this
that appears on the surface.
The truth is very different.
Do you see these jagged edges?
Hide a warning.
If I can ask ... which one?
Well, if I told you,
The prediction is not ... it wouldn't be worth, right?
Ave, Maria,
Full of grace, the Lord is with you.
You are blessed among women
And blessed is the fruit of your breast,
Jesus.
Santa Maria, Mother of God,
Pray for us sinners
Now and in the hour of our death,
amen.
Ave, Maria, full of grace,
The Lord is with you.
You are blessed among women
And blessed is the fruit of your breast,
Jesus.
There is a mistake, he is right, sister.
You had a king in his hand,
If you do the account, he wins.
What a scimunita.
I was wrong the accounts, sorry.
Santa Rosalia must forgive me.
Where?
Ah, here you are!
Cornuto, thief, infamous and traitor.
- Where is my money?
- What happened?
You got your eyes immediately.
You have stolen all my savings.
You made your friend,
Instead you are infamous and traitor.
But what are you saying, I have been here.
Ask the sisters.
I told you it was a cuckold!
This filibusiere speaks better than me,
Other than silent.
And you stole all the money!
First it's up to me.
Come here. Where is the money?
Stop! Nobody is fault.
Rosario has always been here,
Then he would never do it. It's too good.
I know who stole your money.
What are you saying? What do you know!
Oh…
There was something between you,
And you were united to steal the money
To me and that other.
What do you say, Sister Agostina?
It was the abbess to steal.
The abbess? What do you say, do you assume?
Yes, she is stronger than her.
The instinct to steal.
You don't know, but I saw it while
He stole the money from the bishop of Caltanisetta.
She wouldn't want to,
It is the devil who pushed it.
I swear on Santa Rita.
Cornuta, false and stinking of a nun.
You stole your money
Of a poor unfortunate like me?
Where did you put them? Where did you hide them?
Tell me, where did you hide them?
Where did you hide them? Where are they?
- Where are they?
- What do you want?
Where are they?
- Do you have it below?
- No! What?
You have them below!
You have it below.
Where did you put them? Where did you hide them?
Damm them, tell me where they are!
Come here!
Stay back!
Stay back! Stay back!
- Let's go away!
- My money has stolen!
My money has stolen!
Mind, how many are.
Sisters, peace is with all of us.
Care them out, these cuckolds!
Floor!
Piano, I'm lame!
Piano, which are lame!
Shame! Infamous!
Other than the door of paradise,
This is the door of hell!
These are not nuns, they are devils!
Finish it.
The prickly pear ice cream ...
poison was.
Think about your girlfriend waiting for you.
But if I'm naked like a worm,
All the money stole me.
I talk to us with your girlfriend,
Just calm down.
I'm calm.
- So are you calm?
- So I'm calm.
- When they are calm I'm like that, let's go!
Get up before I get pissed off!
♪ You wake up with the Sol d'Api ... ♪
- Have you seen the Colonel?
- It's up to the Rocca.
This is better than that
Mom makes you.
You can't believe it ...
This is a cursed place.
We should escape it.
Do you know how many killed here?
This, my guys, is a slaughterhouse.
Whoever arrives in these parts is better
that the sign of the cross is made.
Brigands can go out
at any moment, and there is one ...
Peppe the orbo.
Lame and with one eye that has fun
to get the eyes of the unfortunate
I who happen to subdown.
Laugh, laugh.
- Is this Palermo?
- Yes.
It is the city where I grew up,
where I understood all that
that I know of life.
Here I learned what justice are
and human dignity
and that our efforts towards the truth
They are often ambiguous, dark.
- Are you so long?
- Twelve years.
I started thinking of returning
the next day and instead ...
- Destiny commands us.
- That's not the case.
Destiny has play only when
We move and let him in.
- Yes?
- Yes.
- Do you think so?
Colonel ...
You have had luck
to go away soon from here.
It's the first time
I go away from home...
and I must say that I don't mind.
But ... Excuse me, Colonel.
You know how to explain me
Why are the Sicilians so slandered?
Since we arrived here,
I see nothing but sympathy,
...welcome, kindness.
Why do they all
talk about it badly?
Especially in my part.
You see, Lieutenant ...
The Sicilians have lost all hope
to change the course of history,
they no longer believe in anything
...not even in illusions
who move the world.
This is because when they tried
to improve their condition,
...their attempts have been
suffocated in the blood.
- by whom?
- from those who dominate them,
the most corrupt and ignorant
aristocracy of Europe.
You are young and you have
chosen to fight for freedom.
Consider yourself lucky.
Keep this hope tight
to be able to change the world.
I wish me, Colonel.
It won't be a quiet night.
It doesn't matter,
we are now used to now.
Let me saddle a horse.
Maddalena woman,
there is a visit for you.
Who is it?
Who are you?
Why don't you talk?
- Vincenzo ...
- Yes, it's me.
- Are you with them?
- Don't worry, mom.
I came here only to hug you.
Why ... have you betrayed our king?
Vincenzo Mio ...
Your father and I educated you
To love the things that ...
that we have loved, but you ...
you insist on ... to flee them.
Wins' ...
♪ How beautiful is Garibaldi ♪
♪ It really seems to me
San Michele Arcangelo ♪
♪ How beautiful is Garibaldi ♪
♪ It really seems to me
San Michele Arcangelo ♪
♪ has come to free Sicily ♪
♪ and to avenge those who died ♪
Who are you?
In the village they told us that Garibaldi
He arrived in Sicily. Do you know anything about it?
And why do you ask us?
We don't even know
Who is this Garibaldi.
But how is it? One who came
with a thousand other men...
to free Sicily from misery and
from slavery, like Jesus Christ.
You still believe everyone
These nonsense? They are cracks.
Free Sicily?
Sicily this is and this remains.
Guys, if you use the brain things
They are just like my friend says.
The continental promises,
But then in that place he puts it to you.
We want to fight with Garibaldi
at the cost of dying.
But make me the pleasure, come home
And go and earn the bread.
Who does not hope do not live,
gentlemen.
Let's go.
Leave it your partner here,
Come with us.
I can't, I have to do.
Worse for you.
Do you have any water?
It's here.
It's fresh, we have it
Taken a little while ago to the river.
The Lord pays it to you.
- Let's go. We say goodbye.
- let's say goodbye.
In your opinion,
how old is that boy?
Will it be fifteen years old?
But what do you care to you, walk.
♪ When he looks
he looks like Jesus Christ ♪ ♪
♪ When he commands it is really
Like Charles Magno ♪
♪ When he looks,
he seems Jesus Christ ♪ ♪
♪ When he commands,
It is truly like Charles Magno ♪
♪ How beautiful is Garibaldi ♪
♪ It really seems to me
San Michele Arcangelo ♪
♪ How beautiful is Garibaldi ♪
- Long live Garibaldi!
- Viva Garibaldi!
Annuzzle, get taken.
- Here, it's here.
- here?
Yes.
What is his house?
The one with the grates
on the windows. See it?
So what wait, go.
Wait.
Let it enjoy it from afar.
As I am excited.
If you don't like it anymore?
What do you say?
Stop it.
Saveria, my blood.
As he changed.
First how was it?
He was younger,
but always beautiful.
Now he has become more woman.
But of course,
it's ten years old that you left.
Look ...
It spreads the clothes of the children.
Who knows who I am?
It has always been like this,
A big heart helps everyone.
The one with red hair
He is the same as my brother Antonino.
My smaller brother,
I told you about it.
Then they will be the
children of your brother.
Safe. After all these years
He will have married him too.
In fact, see him..there is mine there
brother Antonino. See that he is going down.
The one with red hair.
And the boy is the same as him.
Sure they are all his children,
The boy and the girl.
I'm happy for him.
Two has had it.
And where is your brother's wife?
And who knows?
maybe
He also remained a widower.
Ten years are many ...
For a woman to be all alone
This time is a big sacrifice.
That's why he didn't answer
to your letters.
Domenico ...
Dome '...
♪ Maria launched a light ♪ ♪
♪ like a star ♪
♪ When he saw his dead son ♪
♪ Black I dress and I cover myself ♪
♪ First I lost the father ♪
♪ And then the son ♪
- My son.
- They killed me!
They killed me!
They killed me, cursed!
We can
be of help?
Enter.
What happened?
The Bourbons.
They killed all the men
of the country,
my children too.
Everyone shot,
even the parish priest.
I am sorry.
Come here.
These were my children,
They are no longer needed.
Tie '.
It's better that way.
- What?
- Nothing, Saveria.
What did you think?
Who made one like me,
Without money,
without art or part.
It's better that way.
Wakes up!
- Wake up, we have to go away from here.
- Wake up!
Force! Hurry up!
Let's go, Picciotti.
- Let's go, Picciotti!
- Garibaldi!
Let's go!
Run, run!
Come on, let's go.
Bastards are about to arrive.
Below!
ssh ... shut up!
We resort to you,
exile children of Eva.
To you we sigh, gements and crying
in this valley of tears.
ORSU therefore, our lawyer,
contact us ...
shut up!
You are worse than a priest.
Bepin!
The general asks for you.
Five days
of preparations and negotiations,
...Palermo ready to receive us,
the barricades prepared.
Everything ...
calculated, meditated...
...and now we are here to do
An inlookers back.
How much can we get back?
How much?
We have a crevasse behind us,
We cannot do the front.
This is my most important mission.
What do we do?
They rejected us, but that's not enough.
They want to humiliate us,
Put the Desfected Medal for us
forcing us to a shameful escape.
Well, do they want this?
We will make sure that they believe it.
We will give him the illusion
that we are withdrawing inland.
Are you thinking of
a diversionary maneuver?
How many men do you need?
Few, in the column that will pretend to escape.
The most will come with me in Palermo.
I can know who you have foreseen
in command of these few unhappy?
You.
I know your commitment
And I know you know like no other
The pitfalls of the Sicilian territory.
You are the most suitable,
Colonel.
The only one who can lead to
a successful end this difficult mission.
You will have to make Von Mechel believe
That Garibaldi is with you and is fleeing.
General,
You know well that the company
that you have just described
It will hardly go well.
Also, you know my great desire
to enter Palermo by your side.
I know well that I ask
you for a great sacrifice.
To the Palermo military I remove
pleasure to conquer their hometown
And I put ...
man in great danger.
Believe, the choice
is suffered and meditated.
Unfortunately,
there are no alternatives.
When so ...
There is nothing more to add.
He stood out at your orders.
Orsini ...
You have a free hand.
I know you will be able to evaluate the dangers
of the mission that I entrust to you.
Don't scruple.
Act in the way
that it seems more convenient to you.
Are there any news, Colonel?
Ragusìn, do you have a girlfriend?
Yes, in Vicenza.
When I come back, we get married.
Have you already consumed?
Here you are…
Women I had, huh?
But you know ...
I am ... romantic,
- An honest man.
- Lieutenant ...
of life must be sucking
All the taste.
Excess of honesty
It can become a defect.
Write to your girlfriend
to pray for you.
Tomorrow we leave for a mission
for which ... I don't guarantee return.
And I recommend,
silence with the company.
I'm hungry too,
but what can I tell you?
Now we find a place, we fall asleep,
So we don't think about it anymore.
But that changes. I even sleep,
I dream things to eat
And when you wake up
I'm more hungry than before.
Instead if I sleep,
I feel thoughts of women.
- Of women?
- Of women!
I dreamed of the abbess tonight
who with the rolling pin kneaded
fresh pasta on its thighs.
The abbess.
Only that at some point he changed face
and became that of Assuntina.
How are you going to think
to the old one of the abbess.
The brain.
But at least the pasta
Fresh you ate it or not?
- And of course.
- Altoolà! Stop or shot.
In the end, you too came
With Garibaldi.
You did well.
Hey, what do you do?
These are our friends.
This…
Now there are two.
Eh, the war, what do you want?
"It is a fetusa", as you say.
But in Calatafimi
We sang it to the Regi.
And where are you cheering from?
I believed you dead.
But what a dead!
They are deserters.
Look whoever meets.
Come on.
Colonel ...
It was all so confused.
In Marsala, do you remember it?
Cannonate, the barrels ...
And we lost ourselves.
But I swear, we fought
with blood in the eyes.
Then what happened after
I don't know how to say.
It is useless to waste bullets
with these two.
For me you are already dead.
- What do we do?
- We keep them.
With what awaits us,
Two cowards can also serve.
Good luck, Orsini.
- See you in Palermo.
- Good luck to you too, general.
We will see each other in Palermo.
Company, forward.
Sorry, lieutenant.
Why are we leaving our companions?
Are we not going to Palermo to fight?
Where do we go?
Hey…what is it,
the game of questions?
They told you that do you ask
the questions about the donkeys?
Let's go, up, force.
♪ You wake up with the Sol d'Api ♪ ♪
♪ and you showed that
you are not cowardly ♪
♪ For this reason you
are more dear to me ... ♪
It was lucky not to go to Palermo.
But because it was not nice if
we entered in Palermo by victoriosi?
But which victorious,
That will be a carnage.
We had a ass to finish
in the column of Orsini.
I don't believe in the ass,
Only the cards count.
Good morning, Colonel. I am
the above of the Baron of Santa Eufemia
and I honor myself to be a friend
of your illustrious family.
I come to offer you my respects
And to offer you my help.
Thanks, but I don't need
of anyone's help.
Excellence, you are Sicilian
And you know better than me
than in these country roads...
...a protection that does not
stand out it can help.
It may be, but the protection of
which you deal with you don't care.
Your way of speaking surprises me,
Excellence.
But save the excellence.
Colonel ...
Before leaving you, I have to let
you know that my presence here...
is due to an agreement entered
into with your superiors.
- Which superior?
- Don't you guess it?
High officers who enjoy trust
of your general.
Here I command.
They are not superior to us,
is it clear? Command me.
If so…
Good luck, Colonel.
Let's go, Picciotti.
- Colonel, what did that man want?
- Didn't you understand it?
Dear Ragusìn ...
Now the barons and the mafia
They started playing the revolution.
After the Bourbons we will have
to hunt also this gentaglia,
...if those who govern
us have the courage.
But ...
it seemed to me very respectful.
Lieutenant, you are a good official,
but you didn't understand anything about Sicily.
the bird
He entered the cage.
Are you afraid of water?
I come from the countryside.
Don't you wash in the countryside?
But how much is you?
These are for you.
Thank you.
- Don't let me make a bad impression.
- Listen!
What we hoped is happening.
The enemy is behind us.
We are called to face
This great disparity of forces.
As? With intelligence,
The only resource we have.
We will not give the enemy
the time to reflect.
Even if we are few,
We have to seem many.
This is the deception.
We have an advantage in our favor,
Corleone.
From up there we can keep the enemy
under shooting
and commit it as long as possible.
A day lost next to us
It is one day earned for Garibaldi,
For Sicily, for Italy.
Saveria ...
Saveria, my life,
But do you like it again?
Or did you change your mind?
Now with money ...
First the house ...
And then we get married, my life.
First the house...
and then we get married.
Eh?
- Ragusìn.
- commands.
Get occupy with Colubrina
that fortress.
Yes, Lord.
Colonel Orsini, that God bless her.
Me and my fellow villagers
We are at your disposal.
- Viva Garibaldi!
This, you must bring it up there.
It is an order of the colonel.
Let's go, guys.
Keep hard.
There is no one.
We leave the cannon
here and run away.
But where you run away, walk.
Behind we have the Bourbons,
in front of Orsini and this time
If they take us, they shot us safe.
- Walk.
- As you say.
- Oh ...
- Eh?
If anything,
I heard from a picciotto...
that if we remain alive
they give us the allowance.
And do you believe it?
You are truly stupid, spitale.
If this was able to Garibaldi,
It would be too beautiful.
You imagine if Palermo make capital.
Palermo cannot do it.
Too dirty.
- If anything Naples.
- Why, is Naples clean?
So I heard.
The only fear is if they change their mind
And they make capital Milan, these cuckolds.
They can't do it Milan, it is above ...
And who arrives more?
Precisely for this.
It is there above that they have the money.
Fold!
You can't pass here!
We have to get around them, go up the fortress.
Come here!
Guys, look down,
The cuckolds are going up.
I go to tell the Colonel.
- What do we do?
- You have to stop them.
And how do we stop them?
With this.
First the other, struggled.
Mind, three times I explained to him.
Give me here!
The piston.
Come on, fast!
Come on, strength.
Hid, hid.
Removed, removed.
Go, make your job.
What happened?
It happened that it didn't work.
- You said you know how to burst.
- Of course I can do it!
You see that it worked,
They are running away. Cuckold!
Let's do another
that we make them dance.
Go, go!
they discovered
our maneuver.
They are more than they seem.
The fortress is also protected.
Then we will wait.
They cannot resist for a long time.
Let the camp set up.
Mammuzza ...
Mammuzza ... Mammuzza ...
Oh, Nico '.
Nico '...
What happened?
They fuck me, I'm dying.
But what are you dying? Look at me.
But that you are dying, this
It is a crack. What are you doing, jokes?
Don't worry, we take you
to the camp and we are sewing.
Oh! Look at me.
We have to enter Palermo, right?
How did you say?
We have to go to free Sicily.
- Look at me though, eyes open.
- In Palermo?
Palermo.
You told us to come here
To come and free
Palermo, do you remember?
Do you remember? Look at me, Nico '.
You made a head like that! Tell you.
Sicily ... look at me though.
- Picciotti ...
- Eh?
But where is Palermo, on the continent?
Little boy, look at me!
Don't go!
- Nico '!
- Dome '... Dome'!
♪ Goodbye, my beautiful, goodbye ♪
♪ The army goes away ♪
♪ And if I did not leave too ♪
♪ It would be a cowardice ♪
Colonel,
The artillerymen turned on the fires.
They wait for your orders.
Well, Ragusìn.
Now we can leave the country too.
the time has come,
Woods.
I want to surprise them
Before you do the day.
Give me a torch.
This gentaglia who helped them
must be punished!
Give the country on fire!
Force the doors!
Enter the houses!
The doors down!
Force the doors!
The doors!
- They don't let us enter the country.
- why?
Colonel,
Your presence here is not welcome.
In these floats there are injured
who have been traveling with me for many days.
- They need food, rest.
- I understand it and I dolial.
But you will have to look for refuge
In neighboring countries, not here.
These men have left
House and affections
To come to the rescue of Sicily.
- Where is your gratitude?
- Vossignoria asks too much.
I had offered you
My help and you refused it.
The people of Giuliana still have
the sense of honor and respect.
Honor and respect!
You use these words
mortifying its meaning
and my contempt
For people like you are enormous.
Yes? And what about them?
Also this poor people despised?
Feel you, to whoever you want
to take the ass, piece of stupid!
Leave this poor people alone.
Do you know how we treat the bastards like you?
No, no, no. Ragusìn, not so.
I would like to solve the question too
like you,
But it would be a mistake.
Gazzette from all over the world
would write
that the liberators of Sicily
they occupied a country
with violence and blood
And this must not happen,
never.
Gentlemen ...
I leave you to your quiet.
You are now only shadows,
...agonizing ghosts,
...larvae of a world
that will disappear.
...in Italy for which
we are fighting
there will be no more
place for those like you.
Viva Garibaldi!
Long live freedom!
- Colonel, welcome to Sambuca.
- My respects, Mr. Mayor.
We will do everything possible
To give asylum to the injured,
But if the Bourbons follow you here,
We risk
to be the first to be shot.
Our friends from Corleone have seen
The sacrifices of a lifetime go in smoke
- and become ash.
- Did they put Corleone on fire?
- Yes.
- Our homes too
they will be on fire without
even making sure to rummage.
We think it's safer host the wounded
in the homes of the popular.
Humble, poor houses,
but inhabited by people of heart.
Before saying a word,
they would get killed.
Then I do you the bang,
but you do not scare yourself.
I did this.
Here it is.
Feel.
Bomb!
Do we make another one?
Attention, all here.
Here it is, you hear!
Bomb!
This is the most beautiful of all.
Now it arrives. Hear it!
But do not scare yourself.
Hearing it, hearing it.
Rose'…
But where's going?
Assuntina!
Why do you hide?
- You are wrong, it's not me.
- I understand that it is you.
Your nun's guise,
What happened to it?
True, it's me.
After you leave,
The abbess hoped to me from the convent
because I said it was a thief
And I stripped me of God's dress.
Oh!
But are you here?
It is half an hour looking for you.
What are you doing in the cemetery?
This girl
It is the same as Assuntina.
It's her.
Is it she?
Colonel Orsini,
I have a message for you.
General Garibaldi
entered Palermo.
I can't believe it, Colonel.
Yes, but now we have
to save this country.
Call me the mayor and the priest.
Enjoy your meal.
- Mmm ...
- Good has come.
- Yes.
- I don't deserve your smiles.
- Why, do you assume?
It's so nice to see you again.
I will tell you something.
- Talk, we hear you.
- We hear you.
- It's a bad thing.
- Ugly?
But that it can be there
badly in a house like that...
...and with a plate
of pasta like this.
I stole your money.
Calm down!
Place it.
I didn't have a dowry,
For this I made myself a nun.
But when you arrived at the convent
I wanted to marry me.
And the idea came to me
to steal Domenico's money.
But the other night I dreamed of
an angel who had Garibaldi's face.
He told me to return them
And I promised him to obey.
There are only a few ears missing.
I ask you for forgiveness,
Domenico.
The pasta was cold.
Oh ... the pasta cools!
Feel, feel, feel!
By order of
the mayor of Sambuca,
...to all citizens,
...go home and
put the butter to the door.
The enemy who with
cowardice and scarring...
...he set fire to Corleone
...he is coming to Sambuca!
Be careful.
Let's go! Let's go!
The guards are coming, run!
Ave, Maria, full of grace,
The Lord is with you.
You are blessed among women...
and blessed is the fruit
of your breast, Jesus.
Santa Maria, Mother of God ...
See it like this.
This population of Sambuca
He moved me.
In these living conditions,
not different from those
of the donkey or goat,
...these people keep
Human feelings intact and tall.
Sweetness, pity, courage.
I wonder if we have the right,
...as happened in Corleone,
to bring them ...
New suffering.
The violence of the war,
The risk of looting
and devastation.
In the name of what, then?
In the name of freedom.
Freedom in the future to be able
to elect representatives,
maybe to publish newspapers
And even of writing books.
But the freedom of not hungry now,
to dress dignity now,
...to live in more
human places now!
But Colonel, we have
A mission to carry on.
If we fail the goal,
Things, for this poor people,
they will never change.
Who tells you that they will change with us?
- Everyone thinks in Europe.
- Didn't he read what Dumas writes?
- Dear lieutenant,
Dumas is an ingenuity writer
who uses fantasy to make propaganda.
He is a clothes.
We are meeting an era in which
The abbers will be made.
♪ Ninna Nanna, Ninna Oh, ♪
♪ This child to whom I do ♪
♪ if I give it to the black man, ♪
♪ He keeps it a whole month ♪
♪ Ninna bed, ninna oh, ♪
♪ This child to whom I do ♪
♪ if I give it to the black man ... ♪
♪ You have the heart to laugh ♪
♪ I have it to cry ♪
♪ Sing, Usignolo, Sing ♪
♪ You who have the cheerful heart ♪
Mind, how many are.
- Isn't there anyone here?
- How not? There are many Christians.
But at this time
Nobody has been seen yet.
They sleep,
they work,
cheat.
Who knows?
Parish priest,
where are you going?
You forgot what you
The Colonel told you last night.
You have to go to the Bourbons and
to say that Garibaldi entered Palermo.
The Lord must forgive me,
...but I am a poor man.
I can't do it.
Believe me, my legs tremble.
Please ...
Let me go.
But also to you,
who makes you do it?
Escape with me.
These kill us all.
Commander! That God bless you,
You finally arrived.
though,
Unfortunately, you arrived late.
Everyone has disappeared.
It remained
Just a few children,
some patients,
some...
...a few dying, me.
Few people.
- Sa, rumors turn.
- What rumors?
By Garibaldi.
Of Garibaldi said he was close here
with his troop and who are brigands.
They behave badly!
Enter the churches,
Seviziano Sisters and novices.
Fortunately, you arrived.
I play the bells for celebration ...
- No, you won't play anything.
- Oh well, as you want.
I ... I said to celebrate it.
Where is the mayor?
Why don't you get to greet me?
The mayor?
- Well…
- that I can do for you ...
Very illustrious excellence?
What a surprise, what a joy!
Who have those two in their heads?
Do they want to make us kill?
Excellence,
Having here is a party for us.
Of course, as you see,
people are afraid.
The danger of falling
in hostage of that bandit of Garibaldi
He kept us in terror,
But your presence, excellence ...
Your presence comforts us.
Eh ...
Comforts us.
- Where did you hide them?
Who are you talking about, excellence?
Nobody was seen here,
Only the flies.
- You know who I am talking about,
Garibaldi... Garibaldi?
- Mhm.
- Why, excellence, don't you know?
Garibaldi, unfortunately,
Tonight he entered Palermo.
Garibaldi in Palermo?
It is the truth.
Between midnight eleven and
He entered Palermo, unfortunately.
Word of priest, Word of God.
- Lieutenant, take the weapons.
- Upon orders.
Liars!
You are two damn liars!
Garibaldi is hidden here!
Open this door!
Let me enter!
I swear to you, it's the truth.
Garibaldi entered Palermo tonight.
Colonel, this is a quiet country
who is not looking for trouble
And it doesn't
deserve your suspicion.
The army will arrive in a second...
...and he will sift the whole country,
House for home, hole hole.
Colonel, are we kidding?
An deployment of forces like this
For a country of poor people?
You are aiming for a cannon
against an ant.
While Garibaldi if they are fun in Palermo,
Do you take it with us?
Then if you don't believe it, take us
As hostages and bring us to Palermo.
There you will understand, when we arrive,
if we have said a lie or if it is the truth.
Right, Colonel. What does the country
have to do with it? We are there.
In case you will shoot us.
As it is right that it happens to two cowards
who dare to lie to a royal officer,
But if it's true ...
Let us go, right?
Eh.
Look at them well,
Your mayor and your priest
because if they lied,
You will not see them anymore!
These are no longer needed to me,
but remember, there are games
that can be done with one hand...
...and games that are made
with two hands.
Thank you.
"I haven't seen them anymore
and I haven't had them anymore...
yet I have been looking for them for years,
Domenico Tricò and Rosario Spitale.
wherever it came to me
A report, I ran to see.
I went today
At the asylum of Palermo
To check a track provided to me
from the prefecture. "
It's him.
Tricò ...
They look like mice,
but they are birds...
...and they also fly at night.
Unfortunately
this also like the others
It turned out to be a false track.
As long as it is,
I won't stop looking for them.
I feel the duty to honor
To the two valiant picciotti,
that omisi from the relationship
that I stiff for Garibaldi
In the aftermath of the victorious
Shipping of the thousand.
Omission that
I have never forgiven me.
Today after the many
compromises that occurred
and the many instances betrayed,
I feel a certain bitterness
for the political outcome
which followed our expedition.
The image of those two poor Christs
than with impotence
I saw moving away from the square
It is the only consolation
to my disappointment.
Hence my will
to redeem their sacrifice...
...and not to let him
fall into oblivion.
Bear, please approach.
Goes thought.
Please.
Follow me.
The tables are all busy.
You have to be patient here.
If you sit down,
I bring you something to drink.
Water and anise, thanks.
gentlemen, turned.
For the counter it is Regina.
For the counter
it is infantrymen.
- Please.
- Thank you.
- Please, Lord.
Those two are already seated.
Good evening.
Is it free? I can?
is a pleasure
make your knowledge.
- Our pleasure.
- can I?
Very happy. Please.
Please.
Ah ...
Word.
Everything.
I see.
- step.
- Pass.
Britno of axes.
It takes luck.
There is another one.
Good evening.
Colonel Orsini.
What a pleasure to see you again.
You came
Why do you want to play a game?
Yes.
First, though, the young
lady has to leave the salon.
We play this game in my own way.
Now you can give the cards.
Poor Italy,
What a blunder!
[sound "goes, thought, on golden in"
from Nabucco, act III of Giuseppe Verdi]